Add kuzu mcp blog post (#107)
kuzudb/kuzu-blog: src/content/post/2025-03-23-kuzu-mcp-server.md

Reviewer: We should end with a call to action such as join us in Github or Discord to continue developing tools together in the world of Graph RAG or LLMs

Can you end with a call to action like that so we drive users to our communities?

Author: Done in 77c7fb024d579266f1e81a5564a618cb9fd0feeb

---
title: "Using MCP to debug database applications"
description: "Introducing Kuzu's MCP server that allows you to connect MCP clients like Claude Desktop and Cursor agents to your Kuzu database"
pubDate: "Mar 25 2025"
heroImage: "/img/kuzu-mcp-server/kuzu-mcp-banner.png"
categories: ["example"]
authors: ["prashanth", "chang", "semih"]
tags: ["kuzu", "mcp-server", "mcp", "llm"]
---

> Unless you've been living under a rock, you've probably been hearing a lot about the Model Context Protocol (MCP),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you've been living under a rock, you've probably heard a lot about the Model Context Protocol (MCP),
```

introduced by Anthropic in late 2024. We're happy to announce that Kuzu now provides an MCP server that allows you to connect
MCP clients -- such as [Claude Desktop](https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-desktop) and [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/)
agents -- to your Kuzu databases! This post has two goals. First, we'll cover the basics of MCP and walk through how to connect

> your Kuzu databases to these two popular MCP clients using Kuzu's MCP server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your Kuzu databases to two popular MCP clients using our MCP server. 
```
```suggestion
your Kuzu databases to these two popular MCP clients using Kuzu's MCP server. 
```

Second, we'll demonstrate how this can benefit developers using a simple scenario: a software developer

> debugging the output of a Cypher query with the help of an agent. But first, let's review MCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
debugging the output of a Cypher query with help of an agent. But first, let's review MCP.
```

## What is MCP?

[MCP](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/agents-and-tools/mcp) is an open protocol developed by Anthropic
that standardizes how LLMs can interact with external data sources and services

> to obtain external data and/or take actions in the real world. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to obtain external data or take actions in the real world. 
```

released by Anthropic describes the protocol’s design principles in detail. The key qualities of an MCP server include:

- **Simple and easy to build**: It should focus on specific, well-defined capabilities.
- **Highly composable**: It should isolate capabilities so that multiple servers can be combined seamlessly.
- **Maintain isolation**: Only the necessary contextual information should be exposed to the server.
- **Progressively add features**: Additional capabilities can be added without breaking existing clients.

Kuzu's MCP server is implemented in Node.js using the above principles, and exposes the following functions:
| Function | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `getSchema` | Returns the schema of the database |
| `query` | Executes a Cypher query on the database |

When you initialize a connection to the Kuzu MCP server, you open a read-write connection to the database,
using which the client can send queries to the database via the server. The LLM that governs the MCP client
decides which operations to perform based on the exposed functions in the MCP server.

> Note: Currently, Kuzu only supports MCP connections to local servers and databases. Remote databases are not yet supported.

Author: @mewim, do you think this sentence is correctly worded? I saw this in the SQLite blog post and it seemed relevant to us too.
